README.rst, before:

===================================
Vim files for working on Salt files
===================================

Installing
==========

::

    cp -r ftdetect ftplugin syntax  ~/.vim/

Or (preferably) use one of the popular tools to (sanely) manage plugins:

- `Pathogen <https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen>`_
- `Vundle <https://github.com/gmarik/vundle>`_

You will also need to specify the following settings in your ``~/.vimrc``:

.. code-block:: vim

    set nocompatible
    filetype plugin indent on

Note: It's possible you may be presented with an error stating something
similar to:

"E319: Sorry, the command is not available in this version: filetype plugin
indent on"

If you get this, specify the following settings in your ``~/.vimrc`` instead:

.. code-block:: vim

    set nocompatible
    set tabstop=2
    set shiftwidth=2
    set expandtab

Alternately, files can be copied into any other directory where Vim looks for
its runtime files, like ``/etc/vim/``. The command ``:set runtimepath`` will
show all such paths. Read ``:help runtimepath`` for more info.

Files
=====

``syntax/sls.vim``
    Syntax file for editing YAML + Jinja SLS files.

``ftplugin/sls.vim``
    Filetype plugin with good default config for SLS files. Configures suitable
    wrapping, folding and indenting. Added features:

    - All tabs are converted to spaces.
    - Tab key indents by 2 spaces.
    - Comments are hardwrapped (with added leading ``#``).
      This is done by setting ``formatoptions``.
    - <Space> key will try to fold/unfold an area.
    - Visually selected block might be indented and unindented
      by keys ``<`` and ``>``, keeping the visual selection selected.
    - Improved indenting of YAML expressions with custom indenting function.
    - Visual warning for non-ASCII characters (which are not allowed in YAML).

``ftdetect/sls.vim``
    Detect SLS file by the file extension ``.sls``.


Other VIM plugins you might find interesting
============================================

- `Powerline <https://github.com/Lokaltog/vim-powerline>`_
- `NERDTree <https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree>`_
- `Gundo <https://github.com/sjl/gundo.vim/>`_
- `TabMan <https://github.com/kien/tabman.vim>`_
- `PythonMode <https://github.com/klen/python-mode>`_
- `FuzzyFinder <https://github.com/vim-scripts/FuzzyFinder>`_
- `CtrlP <http://kien.github.com/ctrlp.vim/>`_

Commit message:

Conditionally use a Jinja syntax file instead of Django
Search for a Jinja syntax file if Pathogen is installed, and fall back to use
the Django template syntax otherwise. Also provides a documented global
variable to force using either.

README.rst, after:

===================================
Vim files for working on Salt files
===================================

Installing
==========

::

    cp -r ftdetect ftplugin syntax  ~/.vim/

Or (preferably) use one of the popular tools to (sanely) manage plugins:

- `Pathogen <https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen>`_
- `Vundle <https://github.com/gmarik/vundle>`_

You will also need to specify the following settings in your ``~/.vimrc``:

.. code-block:: vim

    set nocompatible
    filetype plugin indent on

Note: It's possible you may be presented with an error stating something
similar to:

"E319: Sorry, the command is not available in this version: filetype plugin
indent on"

If you get this, specify the following settings in your ``~/.vimrc`` instead:

.. code-block:: vim

    set nocompatible
    set tabstop=2
    set shiftwidth=2
    set expandtab

Alternately, files can be copied into any other directory where Vim looks for
its runtime files, like ``/etc/vim/``. The command ``:set runtimepath`` will
show all such paths. Read ``:help runtimepath`` for more info.

Configuration
=============

By default, if Pathogen is installed, the syntax file will search for the
existence of a Jinja syntax file (as described in the `Jinja docs`_ or via a
`Vim bundle`_) in the ``runtimepath``, and load that if found. If it is not
found or Pathogen is not installed, the Django template syntax file (which is
slightly different, but bundled with Vim) will be used. You can force using
either syntax file using the global variable ``g:sls_use_jinja_syntax``. If it
is set, autodetection will be turned off.

.. _Jinja docs: http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/integration/#vim
.. _Vim bundle: https://github.com/Glench/Vim-Jinja2-Syntax

Valid values:

``0``
    Use the Django syntax file.

``1``
    Use the Jinja syntax file, regardless of whether it exists or not.

Example section of ``~/.vimrc``:

.. code-block:: vim

    " Force using the Django template syntax file
    let g:sls_use_jinja_syntax = 0

Files
=====

``syntax/sls.vim``
    Syntax file for editing YAML + Jinja SLS files.

``ftplugin/sls.vim``
    Filetype plugin with good default config for SLS files. Configures suitable
    wrapping, folding and indenting. Added features:

    - All tabs are converted to spaces.
    - Tab key indents by 2 spaces.
    - Comments are hardwrapped (with added leading ``#``).
      This is done by setting ``formatoptions``.
    - <Space> key will try to fold/unfold an area.
    - Visually selected block might be indented and unindented
      by keys ``<`` and ``>``, keeping the visual selection selected.
    - Improved indenting of YAML expressions with custom indenting function.
    - Visual warning for non-ASCII characters (which are not allowed in YAML).

``ftdetect/sls.vim``
    Detect SLS file by the file extension ``.sls``.


Other VIM plugins you might find interesting
============================================

- `Powerline <https://github.com/Lokaltog/vim-powerline>`_
- `NERDTree <https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree>`_
- `Gundo <https://github.com/sjl/gundo.vim/>`_
- `TabMan <https://github.com/kien/tabman.vim>`_
- `PythonMode <https://github.com/klen/python-mode>`_
- `FuzzyFinder <https://github.com/vim-scripts/FuzzyFinder>`_
- `CtrlP <http://kien.github.com/ctrlp.vim/>`_
